Docsum xeon (#280)
opea-project/docs: examples/DocSum/deploy/gaudi.md

3. Use case setup
4. Deploy the use case
5. Interacting with CodeGen deployment

## Prerequisites

The first step is to clone the GenAIExamples and GenAIComps. GenAIComps are
fundamental necessary components used to build examples you find in
GenAIExamples and deploy them as microservices. Also set the `TAG` 
environment variable with the version. 

```bash
git clone https://github.com/opea-project/GenAIComps.git
git clone https://github.com/opea-project/GenAIExamples.git
export TAG=1.2
```

The example requires you to set the `host_ip` to deploy the microservices on
endpoint enabled with ports. Set the host_ip env variable
```
export host_ip=$(hostname -I | awk '{print $1}')
```

Make sure to setup Proxies if you are behind a firewall
```
export no_proxy=${your_no_proxy},$host_ip
export http_proxy=${your_http_proxy}
export https_proxy=${your_http_proxy}
```

## Prepare (Building / Pulling) Docker images

This step will involve building/pulling relevant docker
images with step-by-step process along with sanity check in the end. For
DocSum, the following docker images will be needed: llm-docsum and whisper. 
Additionally, you will need to build docker images for the 

> DocSum megaservice, and UI (Svelte/React UI is optional). In total,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DocSum megaservice, while the UI (Svelte/React/Gradio) is optional. In total,
```

Reviewer: Is a UI optional? My guess is yes if folks plan to use the API endpoint. Thus I made all UI optional. Further down you imply Gradio is not optional. At the very least you should makr them all as alternatives of each other.

Author: by optional, what is referred is the default one is gradio. If you build/ not build the image, it will be pulled as part of docker compose. So the optional ones are once you need to build and modify the yaml file

> there are **4 required docker images** and two optional docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there are **4 required docker images** and two optional docker images.
```

### Build/Pull Microservice image

::::::{tab-set}

:::::{tab-item} Pull
:sync: Pull

If you decide to pull the docker containers and not build them locally,
you can proceed to the next step where all the necessary containers will

> be pulled in from dockerhub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be pulled in from Docker Hub.
```

:::::
:::::{tab-item} Build
:sync: Build

From within the `GenAIComps` folder, checkout the release tag.
```
cd GenAIComps
git checkout tags/v${TAG}
```

#### Build Whisper Service

```bash
docker build -t opea/whisper:latest --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy -f comps/asr/src/integrations/dependency/whisper/Dockerfile .
```

### Build Mega Service images

The Megaservice is a pipeline that channels data through different
microservices, each performing varied tasks. The LLM, whisper microservice and 
flow of data are defined in the `docsum.py` file. You can also add or 
remove microservices and customize the megaservice to suit your needs.

Build the megaservice image for this use case

```bash
cd ..
cd GenAIExamples
git checkout tags/v${TAG}
cd DocSum
```

```bash
docker build -t opea/docsum:latest --build-arg https_proxy=$https_proxy --build-arg http_proxy=$http_proxy -f Dockerfile .
cd ../..
```

### Build the UI Image

> You can build 3 modes of UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 3 UI options. Below are instructions to build each.
```

8ec82528bcbb   opea/docsum-gradio-ui:latest                                    "python docsum_ui_gr…"   About an hour ago   Up About an hour             0.0.0.0:5173->5173/tcp, :::5173->5173/tcp   docsum-xeon-ui-server
e22344ed80d5   opea/docsum:latest                                              "python docsum.py"       About an hour ago   Up About an hour             0.0.0.0:8888->8888/tcp, :::8888->8888/tcp   docsum-xeon-backend-server
bbb3c05a2878   opea/llm-docsum:latest                                          "bash entrypoint.sh"     About an hour ago   Up About an hour             0.0.0.0:9000->9000/tcp, :::9000->9000/tcp   llm-docsum-server
d20a8896d2a0   ghcr.io/huggingface/tgi-gaudi:2.3.1                             "text-generation-lau…"   About an hour ago   Up About an hour (healthy)   0.0.0.0:8008->80/tcp, :::8008->80/tcp       tgi-server
8213029b6b26   opea/whisper:latest                                             "python whisper_serv…"   About an hour ago   Up About an hour             0.0.0.0:7066->7066/tcp, :::7066->7066/tcp   whisper-server

```

> ## Interacting with CodeGen for Deployment

Reviewer: typo? DocSum instead of CodeGen?
```suggestion
## Interacting with DocSum for Deployment
```

```bash
curl http://${host_ip}:8888/v1/docsum \
   -H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" \
   -F "type=text" \
   -F "messages=" \
   -F "files=@/path to your file (.txt, .docx, .pdf)" \
   -F "max_tokens=32" \
   -F "language=en" \
   -F "stream=true"
```
:::::

:::::{tab-item} Audio
:sync: Audio

Audio uploads are not supported through curl command, use the UI to upload it. You can pass base64 string of the audio file as follows :

```bash
curl http://${host_ip}:8888/v1/docsum \
   -H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" \
   -F "type=audio" \
   -F "messages=UklGRigAAABXQVZFZm10IBIAAAABAAEARKwAAIhYAQACABAAAABkYXRhAgAAAAEA" \
   -F "max_tokens=32" \
   -F "language=en" \
   -F "stream=true"
```
:::::

:::::{tab-item} Video
:sync: Video

Video uploads are not supported through curl command, use the UI to upload it. You can pass base64 string of the video file as the value for message parameter as shown here :

```bash
curl http://${host_ip}:8888/v1/docsum \
   -H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" \
   -F "type=video" \
   -F "messages=convert your video to base64 data type" \
   -F "max_tokens=32" \
   -F "language=en" \
   -F "stream=true"

```
:::::

::::::

> When dealing with longer context of the content to be summarized, we can use different summarization stratergies such as auto, stuff, truncate, map_reduce or refine. Depending on various factors like models context size and input tokens we can select the stratergy that best fits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When dealing with content longer than the maximum input context of the model being used, we can use different summarization strategies such as auto, stuff, truncate, map_reduce or refine. Depending on various factors like model's context size and number of input tokens we can select the strategy that best fits.
```

> 1. Auto : In this mode we will check input token length, if it exceed MAX_INPUT_TOKENS, summary_type will automatically be set to refine mode, otherwise will be set to stuff mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Auto : In this mode we will check input token length, if it exceeds MAX_INPUT_TOKENS, the summary_type will automatically be set to refine mode, otherwise will be set to stuff mode.
```

> 2. Stuff : In this mode LLM generate summary based on complete input text. In this case please carefully set MAX_INPUT_TOKENS and MAX_TOTAL_TOKENS according to your model and device memory, otherwise it may exceed LLM context limit and raise error when meet long context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Stuff : In this mode the LLM generates a summary based on the complete input text. In this case please carefully set MAX_INPUT_TOKENS and MAX_TOTAL_TOKENS according to your model and device memory, otherwise it may exceed the LLM context limit and raise an error.
```

3. Truncate : Truncate mode will truncate the input text and keep only the first chunk, whose length is equal to min(MAX_TOTAL_TOKENS - input.max_tokens - 50, MAX_INPUT_TOKENS).

4. Map_reduce : Map_reduce mode will split the inputs into multiple chunks, map each document to an individual summary, then consolidate those summaries into a single global summary. stream=True is not allowed here. In this mode, default chunk_size is set to be min(MAX_TOTAL_TOKENS - input.max_tokens - 50, MAX_INPUT_TOKENS).

> 5. Refine : Refin mode will split the inputs into multiple chunks, generate summary for the first one, then combine with the second, loops over every remaining chunks to get the final summary. In this mode, default chunk_size is set to be min(MAX_TOTAL_TOKENS - 2 * input.max_tokens - 128, MAX_INPUT_TOKENS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Refine : Refine mode will split the inputs into multiple chunks, generate summary for the first one, then combine with the second, loops over every remaining chunks to get the final summary. In this mode, default chunk_size is set to be min(MAX_TOTAL_TOKENS - 2 * input.max_tokens - 128, MAX_INPUT_TOKENS).
```

    - docsum-xeon-backend-server
  ports:
    - "5174:80"
  environment:
    - no_proxy=${no_proxy}
    - https_proxy=${https_proxy}
    - http_proxy=${http_proxy}
  ipc: host
  restart: always
```

Once the services are up, open the following URL in your browser: http://{host_ip}:5174. By default, the UI runs on port 80 internally. If you prefer to use a different host port to access the frontend, you can modify the port mapping in the `compose.yaml` file as shown below:
```bash
  docsum-xeon-react-ui-server:
    image: ${REGISTRY:-opea}/docsum-react-ui:${TAG:-latest}
    ...
    ports:
      - "80:80"
```

## Check Docker Container Logs

You can check the log of a container by running this command:

```bash
docker logs <CONTAINER ID> -t
```

You can also check the overall logs with the following command, where the
`compose.yaml` is the megaservice docker-compose configuration file.

Assumming you are still in this directory `GenAIExamples/CodeGen/docker_compose/intel/hpu/gaudi`,
run the following command to check the logs:
```bash
docker compose -f compose.yaml logs
```

View the docker input parameters in  `./CodeGen/docker_compose/intel/hpu/gaudi/compose.yaml`

```yaml

>   tgi-service:

Reviewer: Do you want to add vLLM variant too? If the two services run on the same port, these should not vary much other than the startup parameters. Usage should be same ...

Author: i agree this can be done, but customizing and creating different combinations we only use in chatqna as yamls for different combinations are available.
